Title: ROP is Still Dangerous: Breaking Modern Defenses
Name: DINH DUY KHA
Student ID: 2019712308
# Summary
- Target System: C programs with ROP defenses
- Vulnerabilities:
	- Some defeses ensure that every ret instruction must follow by a call instruction. However, ROP attack are still possible
	- Defenses that classify the execution as "normal" and "gadget" by be bypassed by using "normal" gadget
	- Some defenses that inspect the history to detect ROP attacks only store  a limited amount of history. Such defence can be bypassed by flushing the history to hide ROP attacks.
- Exploitation
	- Using call-preceded only ROP can by using only Call-Preceded ROP gadgets.  The length of the gadget is increased and containing indirect / conditional jumps.
	- Length-based classification can by bypassed by using long gadgets. 
	- Gadgets can be constructed to remove envidence of a ROP attacks. For instance, Last Branch Record only stores 16 lasted indirect jumps. By perfoming 16 indirect jumps, the ROP attack remove its history.
- Evaluation
	- The authors are able to defeat kBouncer, a history based defense using ROP gadget to hide the history on the LBR.
	- Even with infinite history, the author shows that it is still exploitable with evasion attack that use benign gadgets.
	- Similar attacks are also performed on ROPecker, an extension of kBouncer
- Defense
	- Inspect relevant history or history that cannot be cleared out by attackers
	- Target the neccessary component of ROP attacks. Current defences fail to stop ROP attack because it does not stop all the nessecary components.
- Future Work
	- Find a holistic approach to defense against ROP atacks.
- Questions for presenter
	- Q1: Does CFI prefents the attacks from the papers?
	- Q2: Does memory safety (preventing buffer overflows) prevent attacks in the paper?
	- Q3: Does shadow stack prevent ROP attacks?
- Discussion
	- Q1: CFI forces that the target for indirect jumps cannot be altered by attackers. This is one important component to start ROP attacks.
	- Q2: By preventing all bufferoverflow, ROP are practically impossible.
	- Q3: Shadow stack stores the return addresses on a protected shadow stack and detect the differences when the return address is overwritten.

	