---
title: DifFuzz: Differential fuzzing for side-channel analysis
authors: Shirin Nilizadeh, Yannic Noller, Corina S. Păsăreanu
year: 2019
---

- The paper presents an interesting approach that uses [[Fuzzing]] to identify timing side-channel leakage in Java programs.
- Similar to most fuzzing systems, the users gives  the seed files as the input. The difference is that seed files contain *(pub,sec_1, sec_2)*, where pub is the uninterested inputs, sec_1 and sec_2 are secret values.
- A *driver* written by the user parse the input file, and feed the inputs (pub,sec_1) and (pub,sec_2) into the testing program. The *cost* is measured in term of java bytecode instructions executed.
- A *fuzzing queue* contains the seed input file and mutated inputs generated by the fuzzer. The fuzzer use [[American Fuzzy Loop (AFL)]] with modifications:
	- (1) Resource consumption is measured from the test program, instead of finding bugs in normal fuzzers
	- (2) The difference in execution cost from the driver is recorded by fuzzer to determine with input is important.
- The fuzzing logic take an input file from the queue, feed it to the driver to measure the cost. The fuzzer maintain a *high-score* of input and the difference, and use it to mutate new files.
# Notes
- The approach only care about the difference in  response time. How this approach be applied to cache side-channels?
	- Fuzzing guided [[@gruss2015cache]]
- The paper show that the timing difference can be different for different input.
- Timing difference comes from many factors. 
- The secret in this paper is encoded by the user as (pub,sec_1, sec_2). Can this be generalized to general events?
- DNN-guided fuzzing?